Well it's clearly not enough for any
human being to have confidence in another one.
For you simply to believe that they're
worthy of trust you need to kind of be
able to verify the specific statements
that they're making
the specific information they're conveying and that's
really all about quality.
in the context of statistics it's what are the numbers
where are they from what are the data sources
how have they been collected what are
the risks, the biases, that might sit underneath
those numbers, let's be clear about those
what are the methods that are used to take those numbers distill them
model them and profile them and then
finally one of their kind of strengths and limitations of the resulting output
What can it tell you and what can't it tell you?.
All of those things we wrap up as quality
and it's a really kind of data led notion of quality
it starts with the data what the data are and how they are
used to create statistical insight
statistical meaning I think it's also worth saying that
failing to do those things
failing to live up to this set of requirements in this pillar
runs a really significant risk that statistics are misleading
that the numbers that are produced
tell people things which are not faithful representations
of the world that they're trying to capture
And that's really important for us that the
code supports statistics that are meaningful and are
statistical output or an even simpler thing.
That the organization will commit
not materially misleading
this quality pillar is the sort of central pillar of the statistics
following on from trustworthiness